= Configlet

* http://github.com/jbarnette/configlet

== Description

A stupid simple wrapper for environment variables.

This doesn't deserve to be released as a gem, but I'm using it in two
different projects. Seriously, go find a real configuration library
and use it instead.

== Examples

    require "configlet"

    # assuming...
    ENV["THUNK_STATUS"]   = "crazy-awesome"
    ENV["THUNK_FINISHED"] = "false"

    # some bits of optional config
    Configlet.prefix = :thunk
    Configlet.default :token => "default-token"
    Configlet.munge(:finished) { |k| "true" == k }

    # grabbin' values
    Configlet[:status]   # => "crazy-awesome"
    Configlet[:finished] # => false
    Configlet[:token]    # => "default-token"

There's also a block form, which is nice if you're setting a lot of
defaults:

    Configlet.config :thunk do
      default :token => "default-token"
      default :host  => "thunk.local"
    end

Defaults can be lazy, too: Just use a lambda. The default will be
resolved the first time its value is grabbed.

    default :db => lambda { "db://whatever/#{Rails.env}" } # or...
    default(:db) { "db://whatever/#{Rails.env}" }

Configlet is a module, so +include+ or +extend+ it wherever you
want. It extends itself for your convenience.

== Transformation

Want something other than a string? You can munge any value:

    default :url => "http://example.org"
    munge(:url) { |v| URI.parse v }
    Configlet[:url] # => #<URI::HTTP:0xdeadbeef URL:http://example.org>

In fact, there's a shortcut just for URLs. I haven't added any others
'cause I haven't needed to care:

    url :url => "http://example.org"
    Configlet[:url] # => #<URI::HTTP:0xcafebabe URL:http://example.org>

== Installation

    $ gem install configlet

== License

Copyright 2010 John Barnette (code@jbarnette.com)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
